---
layout: page
title: "Enchanter’s Emporium"
excerpt: "Escape room style puzzle game created in Unreal Engine."
image: 
    path: /Images/EEpic.png
    thumbnail: /Images/EEpic.png
date: 2020-06-06 20:17:38 +0100
categories: CATEGORY-1 CATEGORY-2
---
Escape room style puzzle game created in Unreal Engine. An old forgetful enchanter has locked himself in his emporium after hours. Help him escape by solving the system he previously conjured to trap trespassers. 

Created for the Group Project unit of the MSc Computer Animation and Visual Effects course at Bournemouth University alongside five students on the MA 3D Computer Animation course. A demo walkthrough of the game is shown below.

{% include responsive-embed url="https://player.vimeo.com/video/458988424"%}

The game took just under 2 months to create and I learned Unreal Engine from scratch to undertake this project. My main contributions to the final game include:
* **Puzzle Master** - Used blueprints to implement the mechanics of each puzzle, making sure they are robust, and that puzzles can only be solved in a specific order. Added a pickup and place in hand mechanic, as well as a glowing outline for interactable objects.   
* **FX Artist** - Created the magical effects within the shop. These include: animated cartoon fire, moving barriers, magical particles and explosions on the Sun.  
* **UI Artist** - Implemented the user interface for the game including the controls, loading and end screens and and any text that is overlaid. 
* **Sound Design** - Sourced all the sound within the game and linked the sound to different objects and effects. 
