---
layout: page
title: "Viscelastic Fluid Simulation"
excerpt: "A program that implements the paper: Particle-based Viscoelastic Fluid Simulation (Clavet et al. 2005). Developed in C++, it makes use of the [NGL graphics library](https://github.com/NCCA/NGL)."
date: 2020-01-26 20:17:38 +0100
---

A program that implements the paper: Particle-based Viscoelastic Fluid Simulation (Clavet et al. 2005). Developed in C++ and makes use of the [NGL graphics library](https://github.com/NCCA/NGL).

This project was undertaken for the Animation Software Engineering (ASE) unit of the MSc Computer Animation and Visual Effects course, where the whole ASE lifecycle had to be applied to the development of a major software project. 

I chose to create a tool for viscoelastic fluids because there is huge interest in this area as they include everyday objects that display visually appealing and strange results, these include: saliva, honey and foam. 


The implementation method avoids explicit force integration by using a prediction-relaxation approach. Particles are moved according to their velocities and then their positions are relaxed, subject to positional constraints. At the end of the timestep, velocities are recomputed by subtracting previous positions from relaxed positions.

The main simulation steps of the algorithm are as follows:
1. Update particle velocities according to gravity and viscosity.
2. Save the previous positions and move the particles according to their velocities.
3. Create and destroy springs and modify their rest lengths and apply spring forces as particle displacements.
4. Volume conservation, anti-clustering, and surface tension are then enforced.
5. Collisions between particles and bodies are resolved.
6. Velocity is updated using previous position.
7. Repeat these steps for a fixed time.


The final deliverable is a tool whose graphical user interface is created using QT. The user can input the number of particles, their initial spread and a choice of random velocity before simulating. During simulation the user can toggle different characteristics including: viscosity, springs and relaxation, as well as parameters that affect these characteristics. The interaction radius between particles and gravity can also be modified. 

{% include responsive-embed url="https://player.vimeo.com/video/458712162"%}
